From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number 47.
Recorded Tuesday, January 16th, 2007. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
COVID Smith tools, makers of
code Smith, an extensible template
based code generator for.net Hansel
minutes. Listeners get $100 off
coach Smith professional with coupon
code H M 100. online@covidsmithtools.com
and buy slash end software
red carpet subscriptions. The most
comprehensive solution for adding connectivity
to your.net and asp.net applications
with components for every major
internet protocol online@wwwdotnsoftware.com. Support is
also provided by dotnet developers
journal, the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with developer
Leon Bambrick. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and do a
you're joining us for another
episode of Hansel minutes. Carl's
taken a break. I think
today he's making dinner for
the family and I am
on my own, but I'm
here joined via the magic
of the internet and long
distance phone calls with my
personal hero. Leon Bambrick from
Australia. You are from Australia.
Is that correct, sir? Where
are you down there? Anyway,
I'm in Brisbane, Brisbane, Queensland.
It's great to be here,
Scott. Yeah, I was pretty
excited to have you on
because you actually, you want
to contest didn't you, you
one time snapper, your product
won Mike  contest for
applications. That's right. We won,
we won the LA Lockwood
contest in 2005 and for
a product called time snapper
or at the, at that
time, just for an idea
and a very simple product.
And since then we've turned
it into a professional product
that you can get, you
can now buy and people
do buy and give us
money for So you're actually
making some money on this.
Yeah, yeah. Not, not, not
enough to retire. We've gotten
to the point where money
trickles in constantly. That's cool.
Which is nice. So you
are now a, an ISV
of your own you're independent
software vendor. Well, yeah, Yeah,
I am. It's not, it's
not just me. I'm in
conjunction with my partner at
Lee who's he's from Iceland
and together. We're a micro
ISV as the term coined
by Eric sink. Hi, Eric
sync from a vault source
gear vault. Yeah. So we'll
see a volt Erickson who
wrote some for MSDN. Yeah.
He's a great guy. Self-proclaimed
dot net. Redneck. Yeah, not
a legend. Yeah. He's not
a legend at all. Now
you said you're in Australia.
He's in Iceland. And how
did you meet this guy?
Do you know each other?
No, no, no. I on
I'm on my blog on
secret geek. I said, I
need someone to implement this
idea so we can enter
the competition and just open
it up to whoever wanted
to have a go. And
at least sent me a
really good first cut of,
of Tom snapper of what
became Tom snapper. So how
do you know if someone
on the internet sends you
information and read your blog,
that they are a good
person to get in business
with? Yeah, I dunno. I
think I'm pretty trustworthy. I
think I know. And that's
never really harmed me yet,
so I'm just going to
stay that way. I think
that's great. But you know,
we agreed from the start
that it was 50%, everything
was 50% and that, that
we were just going to
trust each other and see
how that went and we
haven't looked back. So it's
been great. That's fantastic. It
makes it nice and clean.
Nice and simple handshake partnership.
So you are, I've been
talking about on secret geek
on your blog, a secret
geek.net that you were going
to publish the 25 easy
steps to making your own
micro ISV. Yeah. What I'm
hoping to put out is
a series of articles on
all of the, all of
the steps that we went
through and all the steps
that other people could also
go through to go from
having a free product or
free piece of software to
having one that people can
pay for and that you
can make money out of.
So the steps you have
to go through now, your
product is time snapper, time,
snapper.com or for the shrink
stir people. That's shrink stir.com/l
eight C or, and then
your blog is secret geek.net
that you said Eric sink
was the guy that coined
the term micro ISV at
shrink stir slash L eight
E. And I'm looking here
at a, a list of
25 steps that you emailed
me ahead of time. And
then you're going to put
this up on the net
too. Yeah, I'm going to
put up the 25 steps
and then over time, I'm
going to do articles about
each one, about what basically
mostly what the pitfalls are
for each of those steps.
Like what, where you can
go wrong. And what's the
simplest way to get through
the step because there's, I
mean, there's 25 steps to
get through. That's a lot
of steps, the steps themselves,
aren't that hard. But if
you want to get, if
you want to actually get
through them, then you have
to really get through them
quickly and you have to
try and make progress as
best you can in a
timely manner. Now, some of
these steps seemed obvious to
me like, you know, get
a domain, but some of
them I thought were kind
of a, I wouldn't have
thought about them as being
important steps, but you make
really good points about why
this is really crucial, like
getting really good screenshots. Why
don't we go through these
25 steps and comment a
little bit on them as
we go through them? Is
that okay? Okay. Yeah, that
sounds great. Yep. So you're
going to step one on
the, on the Leon list
is registered domain. Yeah. That's,
that's like, seems like the
really obvious easy one, but
I think that's where people
start to go wrong, right?
From the start, the trick,
the probably the hardest thing
is you have to realize
that you should be registering
a domain for your product.
Not for your company. You
don't start off by saying
I'll register microsoft.com for, you
know, whatever my company name
is. And then I'll register
windows.com, whatever your product is,
you start with the product
because you've only got one
product. If you're lucky, if
you can get to have
one product. So focus on
the product first, and don't
worry about whether you're going
to have a company that
has 10 products under it
or whatever, because that's, that's
blue sky thinking you don't
need to go that far.
So you start with just
the product name, register that,
and don't stick on a
product name until you've got
the domain. That's that's the
trick there. I think That's
a great idea because I
don't even know what your
company's name is. And I
guess considering I'm a potential,
a person who would buy
your software. I don't really
care, but I know that
if I go to time,
snapper.com I'll get information about
it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
and our, our company is
Tom snapper.com. And if later
we want to have a
different company, then that's, that's
fine too. And we can
have more, more products under
that name. So yeah, it's
not, I assume for Google
ability that having a product
name be the same as
the domain name would mean
when I search for time
snapper that your, your domain
comes up first. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. That's right. And that's,
that's the thing with, with
the D with the product
name, you know, you want
it Google-able, there's a lot
of, there's a lot of
things to do with your
website to make it Google-able
if that's a word, but
the, the, the name right
from the start should be
like, so the name.net, for
example, is not a good
name, I would say, because
it's not, when you Google
for the words.net, you find
all sorts of stuff about
the top level domain, not
just about microsoft.net. So Yeah,
that's a good point. If
you have to put this
as an interesting point, yours
is you're, you're a product
called time snapper. One word.
There's no space because adding
a space would make it
harder to Google for. Yeah,
exactly. Right. And we had
lots of potential names. Like
we weren't w when we
won the competition originally back
then we were called just
snapper. Snapper is not a
domain. We could get our
hands on. Of course, cause
it's too easy. It's too
easily. You sort of use
up. And so we just
came up with 20 different
possible names. It was like
time, grab a time collector,
snapper time, every, every possible
thing we could. And we
just didn't commit to any
of them until we had
a domain for one of
them. And then once you've
got that one you want,
then you've got to love
the one you're with, you
know, you find the one
you want and you stick
with it. And that seems
to work. Now you also
say here, step two, reliable
hosting, do not host yourself.
Now, a lot of the
kind of dotnet nerds that
I hang out with are
all about hosting their own
stuff. They got the server
rooms in their houses, but
you don't, you don't think
that's a good idea. No,
I, I don't. I, I
just do not understand that
man. And tell the at
all, just because you've got
a nice server, it doesn't
mean it's going to be
better than the servers that
are in the racks of
servers that are managed 24
seven at a hosting company
at a reliable hosting company.
And when you, when you
put a product online, because
it's an executable or installer
package or whatever, the file
itself is a little bit
bigger and you have much
more bandwidth issues and nothing
is going to make you
look less professional than having
your website down. There's no
quicker way to kill, and
it doesn't cost anything. It
costs, I think it costs
us 10 us dollars a
month or something maybe less
even, but it costs almost
nothing to get good, reliable
hosting That implies that if
you're, if your personal hosted
site was down, if you
were hosting this out of
your house and it was
down for more than a
few minutes, you've just wasted
that money. I mean, if
you're not in the business
of hosting, if you're trying
to make a product hosting
your own stuff, if it's
down for any time at
all, that's wasted time. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, hosting seems
to be a commodity market
where people will go for
the, they compete very hard
and they have the cheapest
prices they can. So you
can't really do it at
home for cheaper. Yeah. So
I'm a hundred percent behind
paying for hosting rather than
hosting it yourself. And that
message goes out to you.
Jeff Atwood, whose website was
down for a few days
last week. Yeah. Sorry, just
let me throw that out
of his garage now, number
three, website and website design.
And here's something that you
say that I cannot agree
with more in an instant,
the user should be able
to find download and screenshots.
That's the first thing I
look for. I wish the
screenshots were on the homepage
of every site. Cause that's
what I want to see.
Yep. Yeah. Okay then. Yeah.
That's, that's interesting. Cause I
mean, you download more free
software I think, than just
about anyone else on the
planet free and professional software.
And, and yeah. I find
that when I go to
a site that has downloads,
I want to see the
word download and I want
to see the screenshots and
my attention span is really,
really short. And if I
can't find those, then I've
already moved away. Even if
it's the best product. Sorry.
Yeah. I've, I've not downloaded
a product because I couldn't
find screenshots. Yeah. Yeah. You
don't know what you're going
to get. Is it worth
your time? You know? And,
and so yeah, Of course
I've also downloaded a product
and a not installed it
because it was like a
visual basic three installer. And
I got scared when the
screen filled with that blue
gradient and I said, Oh
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or the
really early wise installer. Yeah.
Yeah. Not cool. Now in
step four, you basic website
content, you said that you
could use a content management
system, but do you prefer
static? Well, I, I prefer
to, I think you want
to do the simplest thing.
You can, I mean, content
management systems, there's no limit
to how complex, complex and
complicated they can be. Cause
they go right from right.
You know, they go right
to the top end where
you're publishing something like the
New York times and you haven't
throwing out thousands of articles
a day for, for this
kind of a thing for
a product it's, it's mostly
just a few static pages
that say, you know, your
release notes and download here
sort of stuff. So you
can, can get away with
static pages. But having said
that the, the, the trick
is that some, some pages
will change. And also because
you have a consistent look
and feel on each page,
you might use what I
use is server-side includes to
just include my, the menus
and the bit at the
top and the bit at
the bottom. Cause they change
often and you want to
only change them in one
place. So by just using
service side includes, which is
just a, a basic HTML
technology, what's the service side,
HTML technology you avoid having
to set up a CMS
and worry about that, or
we'll have to buy a
CMS or anything like that.
And, and you know, you
get the best of both
worlds. I can totally see
somebody writing a product and
then getting all intense on
writing a website to support
that product. But there's so
many other things set up
to do that work for
you. Just like the hosting
point you made content management
is certainly, I don't want
to write a shopping cart.
I think that in 2007,
someone's probably solved the shopping
cart problem. Not something I
want to get in the
business of doing. And same
thing like in traffic monitoring
is your step five here,
the package, but you know,
Google analytics, it's ridiculously functional
and Yeah, look, it looks
brilliant. We're not using it
yet. And I think we
should, because I think we're
going to go that way
in a few months so
that we can get better
info. Like we just, we
put out a new release
a few days ago and
we've only got very rough
stats on how many people
found it automatically because of
the automatic check for updates
feature and things like that.
And I think with Google
analytics, we'd be able to
get enough detail to know
more about that. So yeah,
Google analytics, AWS stats is
the one we use and
that comes free, but there's,
you know, there's lots of
statistics packages in the past.
I wrote, I wrote my
own for something. And that
was just a waste of
time. You know, that's a
solved problem that you don't
need to resolve yourself, but
yeah, you know, there's certain
info you need, you need
to know how much traffic
you're getting, where it's coming
from, how many downloads, you're
getting. One of the interesting
things for us to look
at with the ratio of
how many people download the
free version versus how many
people downloaded the professional. Now
what's the difference in your
product? Well, for us, the
free version is, well, it's
the original version we came
up with. It doesn't have
a database. It doesn't use
a database to record all
the extra information about a
screenshot when it takes one.
So they're basically, there's more
features in the professional version
and the professional version is
a bigger download and we
don't have an, an installer
for the free version. You
basically download it as zip
and, and get it from
there. You know, which reminds
me, we forgot to tell
people what the product does.
The product takes screenshots on
a regular intervals. And basically
I call it TiVo for
your desktop. It lets you
see what the heck you
were doing four hours ago
when you're filling out your
time card, which is a
huge problem for, for people,
especially who have a little
attention deficit disorder and you
get a little off and
you what you want to
bill for your time, but
you don't want to build
people for surfing. So you
can go back and say,
I spent a half an
hour working on this at
15 minutes working on that.
And then I surf the
web for 15 minutes. You
keep all of that in
screenshots. And it doesn't take
up a lot of space.
What's a days where the
screenshots cost. Yeah. You know,
it depends on how you
want, what settings do you
use? Cause you can, if
you want, you can have
them as tiny little thumbnails.
That was the original idea
for the product. I thought
that that thumbnails were all,
you could probably fit on
a computer, but it turns
out we've got really big,
hard drives nowadays and you
can fit a lot of
biggest screenshots on your computer.
So it's just as much
as you want it to
take up for me. I
have about maybe two, two
gig worth of images for
the last few weeks or
the last few months. But
that's, I'm probably more of
an extreme case. That's not
bad at all. It's, I'll
be a couple of gigs
for that much for that
much information. That's great. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, you know,
what's a gig these nights.
You've got to, you've got
typically, if you're not on
a laptop than you might
have 200, 400 gig there,
it's not all used up
yet because you haven't downloaded
when effects, you know, so
Pretty performance. I mean, taking
a screenshot every couple of
minutes, it doesn't, it doesn't
cause slow the system down
I've I haven't noticed any
slow down. And I, I
assumed before when I first
came up with the idea
and I didn't implement it,
the reason I didn't implement
it was cause I thought
now this is never going
to work and then actually
implemented it and I ran
it and I thought this
is amazing. There's no, there's
no, there's no slow down.
It doesn't take up too
much room. It's just, it's
stupidly easy. It's it's really
good. You're just using the
print window in 32 API.
Yeah. He uses the, the
wind 32 API is to
do it, but the, the
bad solution that other people
use sometimes we'll use up
your clipboard, but he doesn't
do that. Oh, okay. So
he does it without affecting
anything you're doing on the
clipboard now. No step number
six or create forums. Is
it important for an ISV
to have a site that
is a blog? Do you
have RSS feeds for like
news and release notes or
is a forum enough for
this kind of feedback? Yeah,
I suppose because I've already
got a blog and I
don't want to split my,
we do actually have a
blog on Tom snapper, but
we don't use it just
because we've got community server
in there. So you get,
you get that with it.
But for me, no, I
don't have a blog for
Tom snapper itself. It probably
is a good idea for
someone if they don't have
any blog at all and
they're putting out a micro
ISV, they're putting out a
product to have a blog
to where they can put
out information and put out
other things for me, I
don't have a blog on
it, but then, you know,
I write about it on
secret geek and people seem
to read that. So, so
that works out. Okay. The
forum though, I think is
a very important idea. It's
something that, that Eric sinks
talked about in his book,
business and software. Yeah, that
was a very good book
in business and software talked
about having a forum so
that people so that you
can find out everything from
the customers directly, rather than
just reading it when they're
complaining on their own blog
so that you bring the
news to you rather than
let, rather than have to
go and search everywhere else
for what the bugs are
on your product. And so
on. Now, do you use
a pH BB or do
you use community server for
your forum? Initially, initially we
used Google groups and really
similar also to Yahoo groups.
And that, that was a
good idea that worked out
really well. The good thing
with Google groups is that,
you know, it's a really
professional piece of software. It's
really, it's really well done.
The bad. The downside though,
is that, you know, people
have to go to someone
else's site, not your own
and the ads there are
potentially for your competitors and
so on. So it doesn't
look really as professional as
hosting it on your own
page, An ad sense thing
pop up. That would be
there. The competitor notice, you
know, Google notice that they're
talking about time sheets and
then your competitor pops up.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, they
could, they could purchase keywords
like Tom snapper as a
keyword. And then you could
say, Hey, you don't use
time snapper use this. You
know? So yeah. So that's
the only downside to Google
groups, but it's a really
good piece of software. You
allow feedback from the help
menu. I always thought it
was great when I go
to the help menu of
any piece of software and
I look in the help
menu and it says, report
a bug, make a suggestion.
Sometimes I've seen applications that
will let you actually suggest
a feature. And then it'll
actually bring up a screenshot
of the application that you're
currently commenting on. Allow you
to annotate it by drawing
on it and then send
the screenshot along with your
comments off to Really cool.
Yeah. Windows, windows, one care
windows one care had a
really great feature where they
had a little smiley face
and a frowny face. I
think office 2007 did this.
When you've had a great
experience. You double click on
the smiley face, they take
a screenshot and they ask
you what was great and
vice versa. If something is
bad, you allow someone to
go straight to your forums
from your help menu. Yeah.
Well, I don't know if
we do. We definitely don't
have the suggest feature link,
but I'm just writing that
down now because that's, that's
fantastic. Cool. We'll be putting
that in the annotate. The
screenshot idea. Yeah. That's a
good one. I like that.
I've seen that a couple
of times, but I think
it's just, it's a little
bit of Polish, you know,
it's like a couple of
years ago, we didn't think
auto update was important, but
now if you don't say
check for updates or it's
just considered unprofessional. So you
say create forums, that's number
six, maintain a FAC that's
important. We talked about screenshots,
get the best screenshots. Number
eight, email There's one trick
with screenshots that I've noticed
is you've got to use
the best theme you can't
like. Say if it's for
a windows application, then you've
got to use the best
theme you can. I noticed
like when windows XP first
came out, that all of
these sites suddenly all their
screenshots were updated and they
all had the windows XP
look and feel. And for
most of us out there
that were still on windows
2000 or windows 98, you
look at it and go,
Oh, that looks I'll have
to look at that same
trick. So you're saying that
the, the classic windows theme
could actually discourage people from
downloading. It just doesn't feel
Well. Yeah. It just it's.
You can just go that
little step extra, you know,
like we use the media,
the media theme Royale. It's
a nice thing. Royal blue.
That is a very nice
thing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I
had someone comment yesterday on
the laptop. I shouldn't have.
Oh, nice. Yeah. The little
tricks I think are worth
doing. Yeah. I'm running the
Zune theme now, but I
actually was running Royale just
before that. That's a great
theme. There was a Royal
Royal Nero where it was
black. It looks good, but
I didn't get my hands
on it. So best screenshots
you can you say configure
your email? Of course. And
then number 10, you talking
about, get payments now you're
international. You've got a guy
in Iceland. You've got your
in Australia. I assume a
lot of your customers are
from the U S and
the North America, North American
continent. PayPal. Is that really
the best way for a
micro ISV to get started?
Even at an international one?
Well, I don't, I don't,
I don't know anything else.
I mean, it works fine
for us. We've had no
problems if you, if you
Google for PayPal and you
can find lots of people
with problems, but you know,
if you Google through for
water, you can probably find
people with problems. So, you
know, everything, everyone complains about
something. It seems to work
for us. What is an
alternative? The other alternatives I've
seen, like, you know, there's
the big kind of draconian
ones, like digital river that
had been around for years
and there's five or six
that I do affiliate programs
for, but they take huge,
huge amounts of, of your,
they want to distribute your
software and they take, you
know, 30, 40% of the
profits just for the privilege.
I don't think Google doesn't
really like Google rather, but
PayPal doesn't really care about
that. Right? What do they
take? Three, 4%. The central
has, I don't know, four
40, cause our products 40
us dollars and they take
$1 20 thereabouts. So yeah,
maybe that's 3% get a
couple of percent or so
bad at all. Yeah. Yeah.
So, and, and you know,
you get your money, so
you don't really care at
that point, if they take
a dollar out or something,
because otherwise without their help,
you wouldn't have gotten a
cent. So Now you didn't
put anything about pricing on
your 25 steps or how
did you decide on $40?
Cause I'm a big fan
of 12, 1995. Cause 40
bucks is enough to make
me think, but 20 bucks
I ah, 20 bucks, the
next thing I know it's
gone, I've paid it. You
know, how do you decide
that? Look, it's not easy.
I feel bad charging anything
for starters. I mean, there's
so much free software that
is just brilliant. You know,
look something like Lutz road
is reflected on it. There's
so much, really good software
that you can get for
free. So it's very hard
to put a price on
it. But with Tom snapper,
for the, particularly for the
original 2.0 edition, we thought
$40 was probably a bit
steep, but we were willing
to put it on there
because we've got a plant.
Cause, cause we've got more
functionality that's going to come
in yet. We're sort of
going somewhere with it and
so priced and you can't
really creep the price up
all the time. You can,
but it doesn't look very
nice. So we started so
we've So as you add
functionality, you don't want to
hike up the price, but
you're going to give free
updates. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah,
I don't know. W we've
listened. It's about balancing the
amount of complaints about the
price versus the amount of
sales. So we're happy with
it at the moment we've
had one or two people
say it could have been
lower. We don't have anyone
say it should be more,
but I'm sure I'm happy
with it. You know, there's
a, there's a quote from
Eric sink in that business
of software where he said,
he said, you know that
whatever price you put, people
will complain. He said, if
you gave the software away
for free, people would complain
that you were taking up
space on their hard drive.
And then if you, if
you had people, if you
had Selma Hayek in a
bikini, go around and install
the software on someone's computer,
someone would complain that they
prefer blondes. Yeah. Nice that
Eric sinks product pricing link
is up at shrink stir
slash L H I. And
you've put, you've given us
a whole list of links
that we're not going to
be able to mention within
the scope of the, our
little short podcast here, but
I'll, I'll put all of
them up on the site.
So just a reminder about
The, the, the other pricing.
The one that really made
me think a lot about
pricing was Joel Spolsky's article
camels and rubber duckies. We've
got that here somewhere. Here
we go. L L H
H L H, that that,
that article really shows you
and also pricing, I think
sends a message. So if
you underprice yourself, you've, you,
you will be out of
business. So If you, if
you under price, you're sending
a message that you don't
care about your product. Yeah.
Yeah. Although, you know, I
remember the funny, the funniest
product pricing story that I've
got is that you're familiar
with Nancy, right. And ant
it's the.net make file, you
know, it's free, right. And
everybody uses Nant and tell
him, this bill came out
and a guy came out
with Nant pad, basically an
editor for NAND files, 85
bucks. And he was, he
was laughed. It's a free
piece, making an editor for
a, for an XML file
format for an XML file
for a free product. Anyone
at $85 originally he wanted
249 and he was laughed
down to 85. And it
turned out the reason that
it was 85 is that
he was doing it through
digital river or some distributor.
And it was, they were
taking such a huge chunk
of money from him, this
particular software distributor. That was
the only way he could
make any money at all.
Of course, that faded away
into nothingness. But I still
maintain to this day that
if he had charged 20
bucks and use PayPal or
something like that, he would
have had a great product.
It would have made a
little bit of money for
himself. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough.
I mean, look, net net
falls having to edit them
is, is probably the, one
of the biggest drawbacks of
using that, having to edit,
because you're kind of doing
scripting when you're editing in
that file and scripting in
XML is sort of wrong.
I mean, you put out
an article once about that.
Notepad is not an XML
editor and you know that
with Nat and you get
into that situation. So yeah,
Nick has a good idea,
but it might've priced himself
out of the market. Speaking
of XML, now, step number
12 on the 25 steps
to starting a micro ISV,
you say, create a pad
file, a portable application description.
This is news to me.
This is some XML file
that is read by CA
Yeah. Yeah. This is, this
is a shareware thing. And
you know, if you're putting
out software that has a
free version or that has
a trial, then you fit
the loose definition of shareware
a pad file. Yeah. It's
an XML file. You put
it on your site, much
like an RSS file or
a bit more like an
open EML file. And it
says, this is what my
product is. This is what
version I'm up to. This
is how big it is.
Here's the short description of
it all with all the
information, lots more than that.
Lots of information about your
product, put it on your
fault. It then gets polled
every day by all the
different download sites. And if
you update the file like
we did just yesterday, then,
then as I've been getting
today, you get lots of
emails saying, yes, we detect
that you have updated your
product. And it is now
updated on our download site.
You're kidding. That's fantastic. I
had a, and this has
been around a few years.
Oh, I'm like really? I
had a 1998. I came
out in 1998. I came
out with a Palm pilot
program for diabetics and I
spent, I spent 20% of
my time running around to
websites and registering it and
letting them know about new
versions. And even today, some
of those sites know about
incredibly old versions because I've
forgotten to go back or
log in what a great
idea. I didn't know that
existed. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't
done any of the work
with that, at least on
all the work there. So
before I get around to
writing the article on this,
I've got to get more
information from him about that.
But as I understand, that's
the basic idea, Commercial apps
do sorry. Do commercial apps
do that? This Photoshop had
one of these. Cause I'd
love to know when there's
a new version of a
commercial product or flat. I
bet they do. Yeah. Yeah.
Actually I wouldn't put money
on it. I'm going to
look into that stuff. Yeah.
Because it, any, anything that
you see@likedownload.com, all of those
products probably have pad falls
and there's a free tool
that you use for writing
them because it's much like
the Nan thing. You don't
want to write XML by
hand and you can get
that from L a R
Shrinks.com/l eight R Yeah. Shrinks
down. It's a little bit
dodgy that Pat Jen thing
I thought, or it's a
little bit, in fact, the
whole pad format is a
little bit funny. There's just
something very shareware about it.
Yeah. Well, when people pull,
when people pull XML out
of their butts, it usually
isn't have a schema. It
might, I'm not sure When
people make up XML, it
sometimes comes out smelly, doesn't
it? Yeah. Yeah. And it
might have a schemer. It's
just got a, it's got,
you know, there's a lot
of variety in software and
it has to handle for
everything. So it's nice. Now
you've got things about registering
it, dot download.com and things
about making sure you get
a ULA, you know, talk
to the lawyers and make
sure that if anyone kills
themselves while using your product,
that you don't get sued.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I Think
that's one of the steps
that, that stops a lot
of people, they sort of
go, Oh, you know, if
I make a professional product,
then I have to have
an end user license agreement.
And I don't know how
to do that. And I
certainly don't want to talk
to a lawyer because I
hate lawyers, but it's not,
it's not a terribly hard
thing to do. It's pretty
easy. And there's a lot
of, there's a lot of
websites that will help you
with it. And there's obviously
millions and millions of example,
end user license agreements that
you can liberally steal from.
And that you can learn
from. You can see how
they work and where they,
how they put together their
content. And then once you've
done a draft yourself, you've
got to get it checked
over. I mean, for us,
I have a friend, I
have a few friends that
are lawyers. I recommend that,
you know, cause I spent
a bit of time in
prison. No, no, no. But
I recommend that to everyone
to get it done for
free from a friend because
plenty of friends ask us
to help them with their
computers. So why not? And
that's Now speaking of naughty
people in prison, how do
you deal with licensing day?
People ever steal timestamp. Sorry.
Do people steal time? Speaking
of prisons. Yeah. Well like
you've got this whole thing
about licensing. Like I found
out that my gluco pilot,
blood sugar, my freaking blood
sugar blood sugar program was
stolen and there was a
crack put out for it
within a few weeks of
its release. That's terrible. See,
I was thinking that now
that that's a fairly niche
product you've got there, right?
You'd hope. Well, I mean,
think about it handheld diabetic
management. And apparently there was
a diabetic hacker in Russia
somewhere who felt the need
to crack it. Presumably that
just told me that every
single product with a licensing
key scheme is at some
point hacked, someone wants to
give a crack for it.
He searched for time snapper
and wears. And maybe someone's
got a thing. How do
you manage that? Do you
feel that people steal from
you very much? I think
you don't worry about it
too much. Just to some
extent you say, okay, well,
if someone really wants to,
then they they'll, they will
be able to get around
it, but you just make
a few steps to make
it a bit harder so
that it's so that they
might be compelled to instead
buy the product. But what
we've got, like, you can't
just get a cracked license
key that wouldn't work for
it because it has to
validate over the internet. So
it has to be key
that hasn't yet been used
by anyone that we've created
specifically in relation to one
sale. Do you have a
database of licensed keys? There
isn't a scheme that you
could just invent that's right.
So you know exactly how
many copies are out there
in the world. Yes. Is
how many licensed copies. Yeah.
So that lots of people
would, might have it on,
on trial, but all the
people that have it licensed,
we've got their license key.
So Now you obfuscated your
code though, too. You're saying
that, you know, people may
steal you make it harder
for them. You did choose
to obfuscate the code. Cause
you mentioned reflector earlier. Lutz
has reflector. Yeah. Intellectual property
is important. Yeah. Look, it's
not so much to protect
the intellectual property of the
tool itself. As in, you
know, taking screenshots and storing
them, it's more to protect
the licensing so that to
protect the whole overall investment
in effort, you know, I
feel like, like, you know,
pretty main person for the
scaling it because I'm all
for putting out code and
sharing code and I'll put
out a lot of little
things when I can, but
just, just so that it
would make it that much
harder to crack the licensing
scheme so that people were
compelled to buy it. If
they wanted the professional edition.
I mean, there's a free
edition. If you, if you
don't want to spend any
money, that's a free edition.
That is not time limited
or anything. It just has
a few less features. So
yeah. So on one hand
I feel bad for obfuscating
it, but there is that
it's basically obfuscated just to
stop people from being able
to crack the licensing. That's
the only real It was
put, it was putting out
a free version you had,
I mean, this is the
thing that's kind of unique.
I see a lot of
share where there's nag, where
and different ads supported applications.
But I think your product
is kind of a classy
for lack of a better
word, because you actually have
a completely free version that
has features that are useful
and it's compelling all by
itself. And it doesn't constantly
remind you to register along
with your professional edition. Was
that a difficult decision to
decide to actually have a
totally free version? No, no,
it wasn't at all. I
think it depends on what,
what the product or the
areas you've got. I mean,
I, I think that's the
way to do it. I
think if you've got an
idea that's good enough or
that has enough potential to
grow, then you'll be able
to do that. You'll be
able to have a simple,
free edition that's compelling and
a professional edition that has
enough extra features to also
be compelling. And you'll be
able to sort of move
up from there. But if,
if your, if your lowest
low end edition really has
all the features of the
best one anyway, then you
really can't do what we've
done. And you're going to
miss out on a lot
of customers because then because
for most people, there's going
to be nothing there for
them because most people aren't
going to want to pay
for it. So I mean,
if people have got the
free one, then, okay, they're
not a customer, they're not
a paying customer, but we
still consider them a customer
because they're using code that
we've written and that's, so
that's a sort of a
joy in itself, you know,
and they might talk to
other people and they might
eventually become a customer. And
if not, they might just
give us feedback that helps
us improve it for others.
So as long as you've
got an idea, that's got
enough growth in it, then
it's worth. Then I think
you can put out a
free one and it's not
going to limit your sales.
It's going to help. And
it means you've given something
to the world, which is
a nice, warm, fuzzy feeling
That is warm and fuzzy.
That's such a healthy attitude
to say that, even though
it's a free piece of
software, occasionally people use it
for free. They may never
pay you. They may complain
all day long, but there's
a certain sense of stewardship
because you put this out
into the world and it's,
it's a part of someone's
life. And presumably if it
does add something to their
life, they will eventually realize
that this is valuable. I
mean, Jeff Atwood talked about
Jeff Atwood talked about registering
that piece of software that
you use every day. There's
a little tiny Pang of
guilt. Like I use a
tool called get right, get
rights to download. Yeah. I
heard, I heard, I mentioned
in week show yet. I
love this tool and you
know, it, it bugged me
and it's one of these
tools that says, you know,
you've downloaded 55 things before
and I'm trying to pay
my mortgage. And I just
said, you know, wow, I
use this thing six times
a day and I happily
click past that. Okay. Yep.
Ignore. And I just said,
I'm going to register this.
I'm going to pay for
this because it, it certainly
provides $40 worth of value
to my life. Yeah. Yeah.
The last thing I wanted
to, Oh, sorry, go ahead.
I was just gonna say,
how many places do you
go when you see people
with WinZip and they just,
they just constantly go past
that screen Who doesn't have
WinZip I don't, I use
the built in stuff in
windows now, but yeah, It's
a whole other show right
there. I hate that. The
compressed folder stuff. Let me
talk about the very last
thing. And then we'll send
people up to see the
rest of the 25 steps.
Step number 21. You talk
about automating your build and
release strategy. You know, I'm
all about continuous integration and
continuous integration is more than
just the build process. It's
the actual release. Can you
actually, do you generate the
pad files being, can you
just, is it one click
and it all the new
version of timestamp it goes
out. Yeah. I'd like to
say yes to that. That's
again, that's a goal for
now. Well, the actual releases
at least take at least
babysitting them at the moment.
Like he's taking care of
them. He uses, I think
he uses Matt to do
the builder. Is it something
to do to build EMIS
build? I'm not sure at
the moment and it doesn't
do the full, I don't
think he does the full
release. As in, as in
posting it up to the
website, updating the version file,
putting out the release notes
and all that. So we've
got a checklist. Okay. And
a checklist is a valuable
thing. Like if you can't
automate it, don't say, Oh,
well I can't automate it.
I'm not doing it properly.
I won't do anything. I'll
just give up on the
whole thing. You've got to
start somewhere. You start with
a checklist and you try
to automate from there, Right.
If it's not one button,
maybe it's five buttons, but
at least it's very clear
and it's can read repeatable.
Yeah. Yeah. And because it's
so easy for mistakes to
creep in at that point
and, and they killed it,
you know, they're right at
the last step. And yet
that's the first bit where
our customers are gonna see
something and, and that, and
a customer is going to
be the person who tells
you about it and that's
not good. So you've got
to do everything you can
around controlling the quality of
that. I mean, in his
twenties, in his 25 steps,
you know, we've looked at
everything about software development itself.
Cause that's kind of, you
know, that's an exercise for
the reader. You've got to
learn how to make software
all by yourself or from,
from other places. This is
just the steps. But that,
but that one is kind
of a general programming thing,
getting your builds, right? That
it relates very much to
having a professional process. Great.
This is fantastic stuff. There's
times snapper.com. That's the product.
And then of course your
blog is secret geek.net. We
talked about Eric sinks, micro
ISV articles. We're going to
post all of these links
up on the show site,
including links to Joel on
software and then a number
of books that you recommend
on amazon.com like the design
book. And then there's also
some suggestions that you have
about installers. And I think
maybe we'll do a whole
show on installers. Cause I
know that you mentioned NSIs,
the Knoll soft installed system,
which I really love. What
do you guys use for
your installer? Originally? We use
Microsoft one in visual studio,
but yeah. NSIs was way
better. Yeah. That's a great
tool. It's not, it's not
MSI based, but it's so
clean and simple. It's definitely
worth checking. I think we'll
do a show on installers.
Well, you know, thanks so
much for taking the time.
What time is it over
there in Australia? Anyway, it's
nearly 10 o'clock in the
morning. So it's tomorrow. No,
it's yesterday. Yes. Yes. It's
more if you know. Yeah.
Well, I really appreciate you
taking the time out of
your day and no worries.
Cool. And this is it
for Hansel minutes today. Hopefully
we did. Okay. Without Carl
and we'll see you again
next week. Thanks again, Leon
Bamberg.